# Lossy-Image-Compressor-Palette-reduction-Color-clustering
Color Clustering / Lossy Image Compressor / Palette reduction
Algorithm by Mulindwa Joseph
josephmulindwa490@gmail.com

The algorithm is simple & still being perfected. Any help is appreciated.

Uploaded 24/03/2021

USAGE:
-Since python is a bit slow, the first part has been written in C++.
Open distancemarginer and drag an Image into it so that its path is shown in 
the window/console. And press "Enter Key".
"distancemarginer.exe" can only run if its in the same location as the extracted dependancies.
Wait for it to finish running and it will create a features.csv file which we shall use in the python section

!If the program doesn't run, you can use a sample from "features.rar"
to test the algorithm

NEXT, open the cluster_dist.py file and change the "path" variable to an image you want 
to lossy-compress.
Note:
    The image will first be converted to grayscale before any further compression.
    The algorithm is currently in grayscale only

change "fpath" variable to the features.csv file generated ealier or an extract from "features.rar"
And run

If the terminal shows "Image Compatibility as false", try generating another features.csv file by
running distance marginer with a different image as input.

NOTE:
    The images will always be compatible if you either used a rich color image or
    if you use the exact file generated by the "distancemarginer"

To view the output, uncomment the last two lines.(by removing the first '#')
viewImage(imgg) # original
viewImage(imm)  # compressed

You can use Ctrl+S to save the images and test the sizes.
Algorithm issues: SLOW SPEED / HIGH TIME COMPLEXITY
